'\"!  tbl | mmdoc
'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH doctools.format.1 @(#)format.1	40.3 of 5/16/91
.\" @(#) SCCS File: format.1; ID:1.6; DATED:1/5/90
.\"
.\"     Copyright (c) 1989 AT&T   
.\"     All Rights Reserved       
.\"
.\"     THIS IS UNPUBLISHED PROPRIETARY SOURCE CODE OF AT&T   
.\"     The copyright notice above does not evidence any     
.\"     actual or intended publication of such source code.  
.\"
.\"     Manual Page for format
.\"
.\"     Written by: J.R. Okin
.\"                 AT&T Bell Laboratories
.\"                 Department XT91124000
.\"                 attunix!jro   201-522-5015
.\"                   
.\"
.\"
.PM DN "FINAL COPY"
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} format 1 "" "Documenter's Tool Set" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} format 1 "" "Documenter's Tool Set"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} format 1 "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} format "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f4format\fP \- format files for printing
.SH SYNOPSIS 
\f4format \f1[\f4\-c\f1] [\f4\-d \f2destination\f1] [\f4\-l\f1] [\f4\-m\f1] [\f4\-o \f2pages\f1] [\f4\-p \f2page\f1]
.br
.ti+0.45i
[\f4\-s \f2size\f1] [\f4\-v \f2version\f1] [\f4\-w\f1] [\f2files\f1]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \f4format\fP command processes source text files
for a specific device, such as a terminal or printer,
and then sends the processed file(s) to the specified destination.
For example, the following command will
process files \f4chap1\fP and \f4chap2\fP and print
them on destination \f4apple\fP:
.P
.RS
\f4format -d apple chap1 chap2\fP
.RE
.P
The following options are recognized by the \f4format\f1
command:
.TP 1.3i
\f4\-c\&\f1
save and print chapter/master table of contents for guide
files, or table of contents and permuted index for manual
page files.
.sp0.5
If the input files named are guide files,
a chapter table of contents for each text file will be printed;
and files in the form of \&\f4C\&\f2filename\f1 will be created.
If the input files named are chapter table of contents files,
a master table of contents will be printed;
and a master table of contents
file, named \&\f4MasterToc\fP, will be created automatically.
If the input file is a collection file of manual pages,
a reference manual table of contents and permuted index
will be printed; and files in the form of
\f4TC\&.\f2collection-file\f1 and \f4PI\&.\f2collection-file\f1
will be created.
.TP
\f4\-d \&\f2destination\f1
process job for specified \f2destination\f1.
Execute \&\f4format\f1 without arguments to see
a current list of valid destinations.
Users can define the variable
.SM \f4DEFDEST\f1
to set the default destination, overriding the system-defined
default.
.TP
\f4\-l\&\f1
print job in landscape orientation.
By default, jobs are printed in portrait orientation.
.TP
\f4\-m\&\f1
send mail when job has printed.
.TP
\f4\-o \&\f2pages\f1
process only specified \f2pages\f1.
Valid page number specifications are the same as
those accepted by the \&\f4\-o\f1 flag to
\&\f4troff\fP, which includes comma-separated page numbers
(for example, 2,4,8,9), dash-separated page ranges (for example, 2-4,6-10),
the use of an initial dash to indicate all pages from
the beginning-of-file to a specified page (for example, -10,13),
and the use of a final dash to indicate all pages from
a specified page to end-of-file (2,4,6-).
.TP
\f4\-p \&\f2page\f1
begin page numbering with specified \f2page\f1.
By default, page numbering begins with 1.
.TP
\f4\-s \&\f2size\f1
process job in specified \f2size\f1, as follows:
.TS
tab(:);
lf3 lf3
lf4 l.
T{
.UL "Size"
T}:T{
.UL "Page Dimensions"
T}
.sp 0.4
1:4" by 8.5"
2:5.5" by 8.5"
3:7" by 9"
4:8.5" by 11"
5:5.38" by 8.27"
6:5.93" by 9.89"
7:6.25" by 8.5" (Default)
.TE
.TP
\f4\-v \&\f2version\f1
process job for specified \f2version\f1.
This option works in association with the
\&\f4\&.VS\f1/\f4\&.VE\f1 macros.
By default, version 1 is processed.
Use
\f4\-v all\fP
to process a job for all versions.
.TP
\f4\-w\&\f1
withhold all screen messages, except errors; send messages via mail.
.P
Invoking \&\f4format\f1 without arguments will start
the command in its interactive mode.
If only filenames are specified, processing
will commence with all system defaults.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\f4man\fP(1), \f4mm\fP(1), \f4troff\fP(1)
.\" EOF
